>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So, how many people
know what the Facade pattern is?
I would wager you could
probably infer a reasonable
guess based on the fact
that it's a Facade.
Like, what it gotta be.
It's like, tell me what the Phantom
of the Opera pattern does.
It's like, well, super creepy and
likes to sing, and so, a Facade
pattern is essentially a thin layer
that
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Interfaces between,
I would say, two kind of distinct systems.
And
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So for me,
I quite like the facade pattern,
because what it does is it allows me to
abstract away the state management details
of an application from
the component layer.
I, on principle, do not the believe
that your components should know or
care how your state
management is being handled.
We certainly, and
I'm trying to avoid going into this deep
philosophical conversation, but
if I suggested that we start
shipping angular material with
NgRx store baked into it,
people would be like, absolutely not.
We're not doing it.
So, why would you not let angular
material ship with NgRx store, but
you'd have no problem putting
it into your component layer?
I think that ultimately
the difference is scale.
And I think it's totally fine to say,
we understand that we are coupling
our component layer to NgRx,
and that's a tradeoff
we're willing to make.
What I have a hard time with is
that when somebody has heard
from somebody that heard from somebody
that the Facade pattern is bad, and
then they're like, well, it's bad.
And you're like, but why?
And it's clear that,
at least in the conversations I've been,
is that these individuals have
not thought about the second and
third orders of complexity of coupling
their component layer to the NgRx store.
And the one criticism that I will
agree with is that a Facade,
it's a delegation layer, period.
What I have seen is that developers
have used it as like a junk drawer.
Of like, well,
I don't know where to put this logic, so
I'm gonna throw it in the Facade,
and that's bad.
That approach is bad,
that doesn't make Facades bad.
Somebody drives the Tesla off a cliff,
are they a bad driver?
Was it a bad thing that happened?
Or is Tesla bad?
So again, separating the mechanism,
the institution from the execution.
So, with that said,
before we get into stage management,
let's talk about just some very specific
reactive example that
I kinda wanna get out,
and I think it is a pretty
valuable tool in the toolbox.
So,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Before we get into,
like I said, state management, we are
going to approximate it with the Facade.
So ideally, and it's a little bit,
it's not quite as clean
as I would have liked,
but using the new
standalone component API,
but it's still pretty close.
So, what I'm gonna do is I am
going to generate a new library.
And I'm gonna call this
challenges logo data,
I'm going to put it in
the appropriate folder,
lives, challenges, local data.
Standalone is false, and
the project name and
root format is as provided.
Let me just,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Put my seatbelt on.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: All right.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So, does anybody wanna
take a guess at what this library is
gonna do?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Local data,
so, we are going to use
this to essentially stub out and
mock out what would
appear to be a service,
but we're only dealing
with [COUGH] the data
structure within the Facade itself.
All right, so now what I'm gonna do,
I'm gonna copy a bunch of stuff in here,
I'm gonna paste it, and
then we're gonna unpack it.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: That's
a little better.
I must have zoomed that out.
[COUGH]
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Libs, local data.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I forgot something.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I need to
generate a service real quick.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Data, data,
data, all right, here we go.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's paste this in.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: What
do I call this thing?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Actually, it doesn't
matter quite what I'm calling it,
because I'm gonna change this in a second.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: All right, so
I'm doing this, I'm creating
a service that It looks like a
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: [INAUDIBLE] I should
have done this and called it local state.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So let me
actually just change that real quick.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Service,
service, service.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: There we go.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Well, what the heck?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: All right,
that's fine, I can make this work.
so, within the services here, and
what I'm actually gonna do,
just cuz this is gonna bother me.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Well,
we'll just leave it for now.
All right,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
I'm going to just rename this,
because what we're
actually doing is
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: creating
a Facade
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
normally, I'd have put this
in the state limb, but.
>> Speaker 2: I think you
have one in the state limb.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Do I?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, that's where I was.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yes, I do.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, and it's all there.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I don't mind,
I wanna play my hand.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's do
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: All right,
let's do this.
Let's operate under this one,
and I'm gonna
just
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I'm
gonna just pretend that
I just generated this.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Good call out.
It's the lesson I did before I
left the hotel this morning.
All right, so, what I've done previously,
generated changes,
local, Facade, and
this is in the state folder.
So, I apologize that was a little abrupt,
but
thanks to the power of pair programming,
we got that fixed.
So, what I wanna do is, I want to
create a file that is essentially
serving as an interface to NgRx, or
that's typically what I use it for.
So in the feature Facade,
which we'll talk about in the next module.
But the point is that we have state
management, how the component communicates
with the rest of the application
is through the Facade,
which then gets delegated
out to the store.
So you can see here, we are injecting
a lot of NgRx stuff into the Facade, and
the Facade is dispatching all the actions
and all the different things.
So, in the local Facade,
is we want to achieve that same or
simulate that same
interaction without NgRx.
So it has the same interface,
remember we talked about contracts and
programming to contracts as interfaces?
And so here,
what I can also say is if you go and
you look at challenges state,
I have a Facade that you can
compare against, right here.
So I basically have to create
a version of this without NgRx.
Thus it's a Facade,
it's a fake version of it.
So, I've generated some mock data,
mock challenge, and
I have a challenge, local Facade.
Now what I'm doing is,
I'm using a behavior
subject to essentially
manage the state and memory.
So, a subject is a mechanism
that will emit data
as it becomes available,
a behavior subject
is a subject that remembers state or
behavior.
And so, it basically was funny
cuz when Redux- Isn't there
other ways to do that though,
with the state management,
like little things,
like input output in listeners for
sharing values across states,
like different pages or components?
>> Speaker 2: I don't like using input or
output or listeners,
I rely on behavior subject all the time,
almost too much.
Can you be using it too much?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yes.
>> Speaker 3: [LAUGH]
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yes, sir.
I mean, you kind of encoded
the answer in the question.
So, just a quick save and
get this done in 30 seconds,
is that
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Observables handle
state in a, essentially,
a microtransaction level.
Here's this data, and
I wanna move from here to here,
I wanna manage state within
the observable stream, and
I want it to come out the other side,
and I want it to be in some shape.
So, I think of it at a micro level,
this is where an observable comes in.
I mean, literally, in the stream,
it's called an observable stream
as you're protecting that data and
transporting it from one place to another,
and then transforming it if you need to.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: At a medium level,
I think, is this is where you have,
inputs and outputs from a parent
component to a child component,
is that state is flowing down
into the child component.
When something happens in the child
component, it fires an event and
it bubbles up to the parent component
to be delegated and taken care of.
And so it's like my nine-year-old
coming to me and saying,
the 13-year-old hit me, go punish him.
It's kind of that equivalent of,
this thing happened, go take care of it.
At a macro level,
this is where the NgRx store comes in.
An observable is not appropriate
to manage application state,
it's very good for
managing a transaction state.
Inputs and outputs Are good for
measuring presentation state.
This is where signals come in.
Signals are just very,
very lightweight observables.
If I just need to signal efficiently,
something happened,
you need to know about it.
This is where signals come in,
that it's just, I think of signals,
and I've talked to a lot of
the Angular folks about this.
Conceptually, I believe
that signals are for
presentation state,
NgRx is for application state.
You do not need NgRx to manage what
buttons are visible on a page.
This is where signals come in.
So if you're using it to manage
temporal presentation state,
signals are great, as well as inputs and
outputs, it's a part of that.
So for me, I think of when you have
the kind of container presenter model or
Spark DOM, and you don't tell,
it was canceled, is that I think of,
this kinda goes back to the domain
model in the future slides,
is that it all kind of just lines up.
Is I try to have large container modules
that interfaces with the facade
that's hooked to NgRx.
From the container module to the presenter
module, it's inputs and outputs.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Within any of
the components, so I said module,
but container-presenter component,
is that any transaction that happens,
this is where,
depending on the level of the transaction,
it's RxJS or it's a signal.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Does that make sense?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, the only part of
that I'm a little foggy is that whole
listener kind of scenario where
you need some sort of event
to make this show up over
here in a different component
like a trigger, or
a host listener, or whatever.
Event emitter, that's the one.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Right,
so that's an output, I mean.
>> Speaker 2: Technically, yeah.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And so again,
following, I said it previously, but
this is a good opportunity
to reiterate it.
Is that if you have two
adjacent mechanisms
that have a shared interest in something,
what you need to do is you
need to promote that shared
thing to the next
available abstraction layer
that the two adjacent
siblings have access to.
So a good example, and
I think we'll get to it,
is I'm a huge fan of
master-detail view layouts.
And so if you've ever seen
any of my workshops, I mean,
everything at the end of the day
is a master-detail view.
When you look at your email,
Facebook, Twitter, whatever,
is that you have a list
of a collection of items.
And then you select one, and
then in the Detail View,
you're able to see those details and then
you can either update it, modify it, etc.
And so what that looks like,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I'll Just
veer over here real quick, and
then we will get back on track, I promise.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
here is good example,
that when I select
an item in the List View,
the Detail View has
an interest in what that is,
but they don't know about each other.
All the List View knows
is that I'm sending
you a list of challenges to render.
And if any of your challenges
are selected or deleted, let me know.
But aside from saying it's deleted,
it just say,
let me know if these buttons are clicked.
So when you hit Select, in this case,
I'm whipping around to the store and
back down,
is this is just saying,
I've got a challenge, render it.
And so this is how this is being selected.
And so they don't know about each other,
because one's delegating,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: To
the layer just above it.
Things are happening.
I mean, these two components have
no idea what's actually happening
that they went up, up, up, up,
up into the NgRx store and back down.
This works,
because Angular is built to be reactive,
that instead of us pulling information,
we're able to
push it to interested parties so
that they can respond.
So its observables typically going
into the container component,
which then is being then
passed down via binding,
which binding under the hood is
nothing more than an event mechanism.
So if you actually went and looked,
it's just a venting that they've
just hid really, really well.
So now, back to this.
And the reason why I
like this is inputs and
outputs essentially
are separating command and query.
So in a facade,
what you have is you have your queries.
This is what I want from the store.
This is what I need to
hydrate my template.
Instead of using the store,
we are essentially using
the BehaviorSubject as a micro store.
If you go look and
dig through the API, under the hood,
it is some form of a BehaviorSubject.
So what's really funny to me
is that people that don't
like NgRx because they
think it's too heavy, and
instead want to get religious about
using a service with a subject,
I think it's funny to me that it's like,
I'm a huge fan of
a service with a subject.
It's called the NgRx Store.
The difference is, I'm happy with one, and
for some reason, you hate them so much,
you need 20 of them.
And again, I'm totally fine with it.
It's just I think sometimes people
are a little bit disingenuine about where
they're coming from or
they haven't thought about it.
So anyways, sorry,
I'm not trying to be offensive.
It's, I've just had some very emotional
arguments that was completely and
logically inconsistent.